["COLOMBO (Reuters) - At least eight prisoners were killed and more than 50 injured in clashes with guards at a Sri Lankan prison, officials said on Monday, as authorities tried to quell a protest over rising corornavirus infections in the country\u2019s crowded jails.\n\nSri Lanka has witnessed an upsurge in coronavirus cases in the past month and over-congested prisons across the country have reported thousands of fresh infections.\n\nInmates have staged protests in recent weeks demanding an increase in coronavirus testing and new isolation facilities for infected prisoners.\n\nThe latest clash at Mahara prison situated on the outskirts of the capital Colombo started on Sunday when some inmates protested against prisoners infected by the Covid-19 virus being transferred from other facilities to Mahara.\n\n\u201cWe can\u2019t say it for certain but most of the deaths and injuries appear to be due to gunshots,\u201d said Ajith Rohana, a senior police official tracking the incident.\n\nHundreds of additional police were deployed to help the guards and strengthen security at the prison.\n\n\u201cA majority of prisoners injured in the Mahara jail clashes were in critical condition,\u201d said Shelton Perera, director of the Ragama Hospital where inmates from the prison were undergoing treatment.\n\nThe John Hopkins University\u2019s latest data on Sri Lanka says the country has had 22,988 coronavirus cases and 109 deaths.\n\nReporting by Waruna Karunatilake in Colombo, Writing by Rupam Jain, Editing by Michael Perry", "The National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID-19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) reports that COVID-19 patients have been found in 24 districts on the island as of today (October 30). While there were no reported cases in the Killinochchi and Mullativu districts yesterday (October 29), two cases were identified in the Mullativu district today. ", "A new app to aid in the fight against COVID-19 was introduced to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. The app is capable of providing all the relevant information required by doctors and health personnel involved in combating COVID-19. Vital data such as the details of infected patients and their close contacts, information on the quarantine centers and PCR testing etc. are all available through the app. \n\nThe app was designed by a team at the Office of the Provincial Director of Health Services for the Western Province and was presented to the President by the Provincial Director of Health Services Dr. Dammika Jayalath yesterday (October 29) at the daily National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID 19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) meeting. ", "The Epidemiology Unit of the Ministry of Health have stated that as of 7pm this evening, 314 COVID-19 cases were reported in Sri Lanka today. This brings the total number of COVID-19 cases recorded in Sri Lanka to 10 105, of which 5804 patients are currently under medical care along with 19 deaths. ", "GALLE (Citizen) - The National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID 19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) has revealed that a 23-year-old resident of Akmeemana, Galle tested positive for COVID-19 via a test conducted by a private hospital. The centre also stated that investigations are currently underway to determine how the individual in question contracted COVID-19. The patient had undergone the test because he wanted to go abroad. The centre added that the man\u2019s brother had returned from the Kandakadu Quarantine camp. ", "The National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID 19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) has introduced a new self-quarantine monitoring process. The centre has decided to direct first contacts of COVID-19 patients to self-quarantine in their own homes according to the new regulations.\n\nThe process will be monitored by the relevant officials as follows \n6 am to 11 am - Public Health Inspector or health officials of the area\n11am to 4pm - Police officers from the relevant police district \n4 pm to 6 am the next day - Officers of any tri-forces camp within the boundaries of  the contact \n\nAnyone who violates the self-quarantine process will be transferred to a quarantine center upon the instructions of the Chief Health Officer of the area.", "Sri Lanka remains committed to President Rajapaksa\u2019s goal of achieving 80% renewable energy by 2030, State Minister for Regional Co-operation Tharaka Balasuriya reaffirmed to UK\u2019s Regional Ambassador for the 26th UN Climate Change Conference Ken O\u2019Flaherty during a virtual discussion on October 27. In a media statement, the Sri Lankan Foreign Ministry stated that the discussion was held in light of the UK hosting the The 26th UN Climate Change Conference in Glasgow in 2021.The UN Conference, initially scheduled for November 2020, was postponed to November 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Foreign Ministry also stated in the release that such collaborations were important because the actions of each country will have an overarching impact on the entire globe. \n\nIn light of Sri Lanka being ranked the 6th most vulnerable country in the world to the adverse impact of climate change in the Global Climate Risk Index 2020, the State Minister highlighted initiatives adopted by Sri Lanka to promote climate resilience by reducing greenhouse gases through conservation of mangroves, wetlands and forests. Plans to promote climate-friendly transport systems through green financing which would support the design and manufacture of electric vehicles by young Sri Lankan entrepreneurs was also discussed. The minister emphasized Sri Lanka\u2019s commitment to address marine plastic pollution as well as the need to develop facilities to recycle plastic litter with a focus on coastal cities. \n\nAmbassador O\u2019Flaherty stated that he appreciated Sri Lanka\u2019s green initiatives, including the ongoing collaboration between the UK and Sri Lanka under the Commonwealth Litter Programme (CLiP) which focuses on addressing the impact of micro plastics through collaboration in research, enhancing capacity for analysis by strengthening laboratory facilities and public awareness campaigns. He further commended Sri Lanka\u2019s leading role in the Commonwealth Blue Charter Action Group on Mangrove Ecosystems and Livelihoods and advocating to halve the world\u2019s Nitrogen waste by 2030, through the Colombo Declaration on Sustainable Nitrogen Management.", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - Army Commander Lieutenant General Shavendra Silva revealed that two persons admitted to the National Hospital last night have died on admission.\n\nHowever, the Army Commander stated that the cause of death cannot be confirmed as COVID-19 at the moment and that steps have been taken to conduct a PCR investigation regarding the two persons who died. ", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - Army Commander Lieutenant General Shavendra Silva stated that the PCR machine used for the most number of PCR tests in the country has malfunctioned. This was revealed at a discussion held by a television channel this morning. \n\nThe Army Commander further stated that while Sri Lankan technicians repeatedly attempted to repair the machine, their efforts were unsuccessful. He added that he felt machine might have become inoperable because it was used 24 hours a day for the past 20 days. \n\nBecause a Chinese technician is required to repair the machine, arrangements are being made on a diplomatic level to bring down such a technician, he said, while adding that the technician should arrive in the island tomorrow. The Army Commander also stated that the technician will repair the machine while under quarantine. \n ", "Commissioner General of the Department of Buddhist Affairs Sunanda Kariyapperuma states that he has requested from the chief prelates of every temple that the Katina ceremony be carried out with according to health and safety practices adopted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This includes limiting the number of devotees who take part. \n\nHe also stated that while the necessary health and safety practices must be followed at this critical time, no action will be taken to prevent the Buddhist community from taking part in this important annual ceremony. He further stated that all devotees must strictly adhere to t such guidelines. ", "Army Commander Lieutenant General Shavendra Silva stated that curfew will be imposed in the Western province from 12 midnight tomorrow till 5.00 am on Monday. He further stated that curfew will continue after 5 am on Monday for areas in the Western province where curfew is currently in place. ", "Shops and pharmacies will be allowed to open intermittently in areas where quarantine curfew is in place. According to the new regulations, shops and pharmacies in the Gampaha and Kalutara districts will remain open every Monday and Thursday from 8 am to 10 pm, while pharmacies in the Colombo and Kurunegala districts will be open every Tuesday and Friday from 8 am to 10 pm. ", "The 17th, 18th and 19th deaths caused by COVID-19 have been reported in Sri Lanka, the National Operation Center for Prevention of COVID-19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) states. The deceased were aged 41, 19 and 75 years. ", "Secretary of State of the United States of America Michael R. Pompeo will make an official visit to Sri Lanka from October 27-28. The Secretary of State was invited by Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena. Discussions will be held between the Secretary of State and Sri Lankan leadership including the Foreign Minister. \n\nSecretary of State Pompeo is the highest-level US dignitary to visit Sri Lanka during the tenure of US President Donald Trump. Several areas of engagement between the two countries will be discussed during his visit. \n\nPhotograph: usatoday.com", "It has been confirmed that the patient receiving treatment at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Colombo General hospital who died last morning has in fact died due to COVID-19. The individual, 70, was a resident of Colombo. ", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - The Railway Department states that a number of train journeys have been canceled from today (October 26). Accordingly, trains will run along the coastal line only 6 times and will only transport passengers until the Colpetty railway station. \n\nThe department also announced that all trains which run along the main, Puttalam and Kelani Valley have been cancelled from today. This includes trains which transport goods and passengers. ", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - The National Operation Centre for the Prevention of COVID-19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) has confirmed that an islandwide curfew will not be imposed this weekend. This statement was made in light of fear being expressed on social media regarding the imposition of a curfew this weekend. ", "The 26 year old patient infected with COVID-19 who fled the Kosgama Hospital has been found. \nThe patient was found in Borella by police and escorted back to the hospital. ", "UPDATE - The patient has been found\n\nA patient infected with COVID-19 has fled the Kosgama Hospital where he was receiving treatment. The patient, 26, was identified as a resident of the Seethawaka Waththa, New Kelani road according to the National Operations Centre for Prevention of COVID-19.\n\nIf you have any information on this individual, please call your nearest police station. ", "UN Day Sri Lanka will be held virtually today (October 23). Focused on the global theme \u2018Shaping Our Future Together\u2019, the ceremony will feature Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Minister of Foreign Affairs Dinesh Gunawardena. Discussions on the global theme will explore the importance of global cooperation and innovative solutions as the world recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic A high level UN-75 dialogue has also been planned to unite Sri Lankan leaders of all ages. Through the dialogue, leaders will discuss \u2018the role of youth in harnessing multilateral cooperation for COVID-19 recovery '. \n\nModerated by UN Resident Coordinator Hanaa Singer, the dialogue will feature Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports Namal Rajapaksa, Academic and Advocate for the Sustainable Development Goals Dr. Buddima Sinasinghe, Assistant Director of the Ministry of Education Shadika Wazir and Activist and digital storyteller Benislos Thushan. Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Admiral Jayanath Colombage, Chairman of UN Global Compact Sri Lanka Dilhan Fernando, General Secretary of Sarvodaya Dr. Vinya Ariyaratne, Research Economist of the Institute of Policy Studies Kithmina Hewage, Co-Founder of Hashtag Generation Mahishaa Balraj, Founder of UDecide Saranee Gunathilaka and Youth and Peace Activist Anojitha Sivaskaran will also be joining the discussion. \n\nToday\u2019s event will be held in the backdrop of UN75, a global debate launched in January to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations. UN75 aims to be the largest and farthest-reaching worldwide conversation the United Nations has ever hosted and will be based on the theme \u2018building the future we want\u2019. The United Nations hopes to open dialogue about the United Nations itself by engaging with as many people as possible. To this end, a one minute survey has been created in order to help understand the pulse of the people. In the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, most events will be held virtually. \n\nThe dialogue will be open for online comments and discussions from the audience through live-stream on the UN Sri Lanka Facebook page from 4 pm today (October 23).  ", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - A curfew has been imposed in the Kotahena area from 6 pm today. The move was announced by Army Commander Lieutenant General Shavendra Silva today.", "The validity period for driving licenses which expire from July 1 to December 31 has been extended by 3 months from the date of expiry. ", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - The National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID 19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) states that the Mattakkuliya, Mutwal, Bloumendhal, Grandpass and Wellampitiya areas will remain under curfew until further notice. The move comes as the number of COVID-19 cases from the Minuwangoda cluster exceeds 2500 - the highest number of cases recorded from a single cluster to date in Sri Lanka. ", "COLOMBO (Citizen) - The National Operation Centre for Prevention of COVID 19 Outbreak (NOCPCO) has stated that the total number of COVID-19 cases from the Minuwangoda cluster has exceeded 2510 cases. The cluster has now become the largest cluster to date in Sri Lanka with the largest number of cases. ", "The Department of Examinations announced that students living in areas where a curfew is currently in place can use their exam admission notice and National Identity Card as a curfew pass. Additionally, teachers who will be marking papers for the Grade 5 scholarship exam and teachers invigilating the GCE Advanced Level exam can use their letter of appointment as a curfew pass. "]